Welcome to the fifth week of
the motion planning course.
In this module, we
will be discussing
a very important part of
our motion planning
architecture, behavior planning.
We will start this module off by
introducing the concept
of behavior planning,
and how to construct
the behavior plan
or using a state machine.
Then, throughout
the rest of the module,
we will go through the process of
creating a state machine-based
behavior planner,
able to handle
multiple scenarios.
Finally, we will finish off
this module by looking at
alternative approaches to the
behavior planning problem,
to understand their relative
strengths and weaknesses.
In this lesson, we will,
define the requirements for
a behavior planning system,
explore the typical
inputs and outputs
to a behavior planning
module, and finally,
introduce the concept of
finite state machines,
and how they can be used to
create a behavior
planning system.
Let's begin. A behavior
planning system,
plans the set of high level
driving actions,
or maneuvers to safely achieve
the driving mission under
various driving situations.
The set of maneuvers which are
planned should take into account,
the rules of the road,
and the interactions with
all static and dynamic objects
in the environment.
The set of high level decisions
made by the planner must
ensure vehicle safety and
efficient motion through
the environment.
We discussed many
of these concepts
already in course one
of this specialization,
and it is the behavior
planner that needs to make
the right decisions to keep us
moving safely towards our goal.
As an example of the role
of the behavior planner,
let's suppose
the autonomous vehicle
arrives at a busy intersection.
The behavior planner must
plan when and where to stop,
how long to stay stopped for,
and when to proceed
through the intersection.
The behavior planner has
to perform this type of
decision-making in a
computationally efficient manner,
so that it can react quickly to
changes in the environment,
and be deployed on
an autonomous vehicle hardware.
The behavior planners
should also be able to
deal with inputs that
are both inaccurate,
corrupted by measurement
noise, and incorrect,
affected by perception
errors such as
false positive detections and
false negative detections.
Now that we have the definition
for the role of the
behavior planner,
let's build a list of
basic behaviors that we'll
work with for the rest
of this module.
We've described most of these
in an earlier video
in this course,
and we'll use this list as
a representation of the set of
likely maneuvers or driving
behaviors encountered
throughout regular driving
that an autonomous vehicle
may need to execute.
In all, we'll consider
five behaviors.
The first is track speed.
This behavior amounts to
unconstrained driving
on open road,
meaning that
the only restriction on
forward progress is that
the speed limit
should be respected.
Next, is follow lead vehicle.
The speed of the vehicle in
front of the ego
vehicle should be
matched and a safe
following distance
should be maintained.
The third is decelerate to stop.
A stop point exists in
the ego vehicle's lane
within the planning horizon,
and the vehicle
should decelerate to
a standstill at that stop point.
Every regulatory element that
requires a complete stop
triggers this behavior.
Next, we have stay stopped.
The vehicle should
continue to stay
stationary for
a fixed amount of time.
As an example, when the vehicle
stops at a stop sign,
it should stay stopped for
at least three seconds.
Finally, we have
the merge behavior.
The vehicle should
either merge into
the left or right lane
at this time.
This basic list of
maneuvers will serve us
well in developing the
principles of behavior planning.
However, many more behaviors
should be considered in practice,
and the overall complexity of
the behavior planner
will grow as a result.
The primary output of
the behavior planner is
a driving maneuver to be
performed in
the current environment.
Along with the driving maneuver,
the behavior planner also
outputs a set of constraints,
which constrain the local
planning problem.
The constraints which
we will use and
populate throughout
this module include,
the default path from
the current location of
the vehicle to
the goal destination,
for many behaviors, this is
the center line of
the ego vehicle's current lane.
The speed limit along
the default path.
The lane boundaries of
the current lane that should be
maintained under
nominal driving conditions.
Any future stop locations
which the vehicle
needs to arrive at,
and this constraint is only
populated if the relevant
maneuver is selected.
Finally, the set of
dynamic objects of
high interest which the local
planner should attend to.
These dynamic objects
may be important due
to proximity or
estimated future path.
In order for the
behavior planner to be
able to produce
the required output,
it needs a large amount
of information from
many other software systems
in our autonomy stack.
First, the behavior
planner relies on
full knowledge of the road
network near the vehicle.
This knowledge comes from
the high definition road map.
Next, the behavior
planner must know
which roadways to follow
to get to a goal location.
This comes in the form of
a mission path over
the road network graph.
Further, the location
of the vehicle
is also vital to be
able to correctly
position HD roadmap elements
in the local environment
around the vehicle.
Accurate localization
information is also
needed from the localization
system as a result.
Finally, the behavior planner
requires all relevant
perception information,
in order to fully understand
the actions that
need to be taken,
to safely activate the mission.
This information includes, all
observed dynamic objects
in the environment,
such as cars,
pedestrians, or bicycles.
For each dynamic object,
its current state,
predicted paths,
collision points,
and time to collision,
are all required.
It also includes, all observed
static objects in
their respective states,
such as parked vehicles,
construction cones,
and traffic lights, with
an indication of their state.
Finally, it includes
a local occupancy grid map
defining the safe areas
to execute maneuvers.
With all the necessary
information available to it,
the behavior planner must
select the appropriate behavior,
and define the necessary
accompanying constraints
to keep the vehicle safe
and moving efficiently.
To do so, we will
construct a set of
rules either explicitly
or implicitly
that consider all of
the rules of the road
and all of the interactions
with other dynamic objects.
One approach traditionally used
to represent the set of rules
required to solve
behavior selection
is a finite state machine.
Throughout this module,
we will go through
a step-by-step process
of constructing
a finite state machine-based
behavior planner.
We'll discuss some of the
limitations of this approach.
To better understand the finite
state machine approach,
let's walk through
a simple example of
a finite-state machine
for a single scenario,
handling a stop sign
intersection with no traffic.
The first set of components
of a finite state machine,
is the set of states.
For behavior planning system,
the states will represent each
of the possible
driving maneuvers,
which can be encountered.
In our example, we will only need
two possible maneuvers or states,
track speed and
decelerate to stop.
The maneuver decision defined by
the behavior planner is set by
the state of the finite
state machine.
Each state has associated
with it an entry action,
which is the action that is to be
taken when a state
is first entered.
For our behavior planner,
these entry actions
involve setting
the necessary constraint outputs
to accompany the
behavior decision.
For instance, as soon as we enter
the decelerate to stop state,
we must also define the
stopping point along the path.
Similarly, the entry condition
for the track speed state,
sets the speed limit to track.
The second set of components
of the finite state machine,
are the transitions, which
define the movement from
one state to another.
In our two-state example,
we can transition from track
speed to decelerate to stop,
and from decelerate to
stop back to track speed.
Note that there can
also be transitions
which return us to
the current state,
triggering the entry action
to repeat for that state.
Each transition is
accompanied with a set of
transition conditions
that need to
be met before changing
to the next state.
These transition conditions
are monitored while
in a state to determine when
a transition should occur.
For our simple example,
the transition
conditions going from
track speed to decelerate to stop
involved checking
if a stop point is
within a threshold distance
in our current lane.
Similarly, if we have
reached zero velocity
at the stop point,
we can transition from decelerate
to stop back to track speed.
These two-state
example highlights
the most important aspects of
the finite state machine-based
behavior planner.
As the number of scenarios
and behaviors increases,
the finite state
machine that is needed
becomes significantly
more complex,
with many more states and
conditions for transition.
Finite state machines can be
a very simple and effective tool
for behavior planning.
We can think of them as
a direct implementation of
the definition of
behavior planning,
which requires us to define
maneuvers or states,
and local planning constraints or
entry actions that satisfy
the rules of the road and
check safe interaction with
other dynamic and
static objects in
the environment or
transition conditions.
By keeping track of
the current maneuver and
state of the driving environment,
only relevant transitions out of
the current state need
to be considered,
greatly reducing the number of
conditions to check
at each iteration.
As a result of
the decomposition of
behavior planning into a set of
states with transitions
between them,
the individual rules required
remain relatively simple.
This leads to straightforward
implementations
with clear divisions
between separate behaviors.
However, as the number
of states increases,
the complexity of defining
all possible transitions and
their conditions explodes.
There is also
no explicit way to handle
uncertainty and errors
in the input data.
These challenges mean that
the finite-state machine approach
tends to run into difficulties,
as we approach full level
five autonomy.
But it is an excellent
starting point for
systems with restricted
operational design domains,
permitting a manageable
number of states.
We'll look into these limitations
and alternative approaches to
behavior planning in
the final video in this module.
This concludes our introduction
to behavior planning.
In this video, we formulated
a clear definition of
the behavior planning problem and
its role within the overall
motion planning system.
We discussed the standard inputs
and outputs of the
behavior planning module.
We introduced the finite
state machine
and its components,
and applied it to a two-state
behavior planning problem.
From here, we'll start to add
more capabilities to
our finite-state machine
behavior planner.
In the next lesson,
we will learn how to
handle all the rules
associated with
an intersection scenario without
any dynamic objects.
Well, see you there.